---
layout: default
title:  "Week 3"
date:   2018-01-28 21:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week I finished up Collatz and submitted it. I didn't change much since posting last week's entry, and mainly focused on documentation and the public acceptance tests. Our use of doxygen did encourage me to start writing doxygen comments in a project that I was working on for my concurrency class (CS 378).

I spent a lot of time during the first half of this week working on my concurrency project. The "shared counter lab" was a project about trying to increment a counter to 10 million, and then trying to do it faster by parallelizing it. If you're thinking "how could you possibly do `++i` faster with more CPU cores?", your suspicions are correct--it just gets slower. We recorded timing and load balance data in a series of tests using different synchronization primitives (mutex locks, spinlocks, and atomic compare-and-swap operations) and found that, for several reasons, parallelizing a shared counter is slow.

As we move on to a more involved project, a parallel implementation of the [K-Means][kmeans] algorithm, I think that OOP will be very useful to me. I've already decided to move from C to C++ for the next concurrency project, and I am excited to keep learning about it in OOP.

## What's in your way?
I'm still working out housing for next semester, and I'm not 100% sure what I'm doing this summer either. With hard work and dedication, hopefully I can avoid being homeless.

## What will you do next week?
1. Start looking at the Voting project
2. Try to find some time to spend on personal projects
3. I thought I would have to get my summer clothes out, but it looks like it's going to stay cool for a while

## What's my experience of the class?
I'm starting to really appreciate some of the thing's we're seeing in C++. I haven't used any other language that has anything similar to C++ references, so I'm still kind of amazed by how simple they make some things. Returning multiple things from a function, for example, is easily done by passing output variables into a function as references. In C, you would have to more explicitly pass an address and then dereference it within the function. It is kind of interesting that functions can choose to modify the arguments that you pass to them without you having to realize it.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
Sometimes I find that my GitHub issues are being tracked somewhere outside of the repository I'm working on. For example, when using a GitHub organization or maybe when working on a project that's a dependency of another project.

With our OOP projects, for example, we have separate classroom, private, and test repos, and we track all of our issues in the classroom repo. Sometimes, I want to reference an issue in the classroom repo from one of the other two. GitHub actually allows you to [cross reference issues][github secrets] in other repositories. Normally, you reference an issue simply by writing its number in a comment or commit, like:
```markdown
#11
```
It's worth noting that both issues and pull requests can be referenced like this, as they share the same ID counter.

If you want to reference an issue or PR in another repository, you just write out the owner and repository name, like this:
```markdown
cs371pt-spring-2018/collatz-tests#11
```
[Here's an example.][my crossref]

[kmeans]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering
[github secrets]: https://github.com/blog/967-github-secrets
[my crossref]: https://github.com/loganzartman/oopblog18/commit/68806f01c23c25264ba9d75717de221c1c66df6d