---
layout: default
title:  "Week 6"
date:   2018-02-25 20:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
Luckily I had some spare time this week, because I needed it for my never-ending search for an internship. I attended the FoCS event on Monday and the Career Fair on Tuesday and had the chance to talk to eight or so tech companies about what I do and what they do. I tried to focus on mid-sized companies and those with a large Austin presence. I had a lot of interesting conversations and was not immediately handed back my resume and told to apply online. I was fortunate enough to do a few interviews at the end of the week, and I'm excited to potentially hear back.

## What's in your way?
I've got both a whole Concurrency lab to do and the OOP test to study for by this Thursday. I put off doing a lot of things this past week to deal with career fairs and interviews. 

## What will you do next week?
1. Study for Test #1
2. Spend more time being active 

## What's my experience of the class?
I had fun with our in-depth look at the mechanics of building an iterator. Our `RangeIterator` and more recently our `Range` classes provided some pretty valuable insight as to how iterators work in C++, and I think that iterators are a pretty fundamental programming concept. It's also interesting to see how C++ deals with interfaces. In last week's post I expressed concern that there is no notion of interface classes, and that there seemed to be no way to specify what kind of interface was required for a template argument you were defining. Now I'm starting to see that due to the nature of template classes in C++, it really is sufficient to just ask for certain operators or methods and let the compiler figure out if you've passed in the right kind of object. It does rely a bit more on consistent convention (an iterator provides x, y, and z operators, which must do some specific iterator-like things), but I'm getting used to it.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
You might hate me for this, but I've been trying this plugin for Sublime Text called [ActualVim][actual vim] that provides Vim keybindings for Sublime. One of my biggest pet peeves with vim is that the plugin ecosystem is a bit of a pain to deal with. I appreciate really detailed syntax highlighting (lots of color), because I feel like it makes it easier to mentally parse code. Vim's built-in syntax highlighting for most languages is pretty lacking in this regard. Another thing I've had trouble with in Vim is getting a decent [code linter][linting] working for languages like C and C++.

This particular plugin is cool because it's not keybindings--it's literally running an instance of [NeoVim][nvim] to handle all of your inputs. Essentially any inputs that you could make to vim will work exactly the same in Sublime. The advantage to doing this over using vim is that you get Sublime plugins, syntax highlighting, themes, and whatever else is good about a modern text editor. In my experience, the typing latency has been pretty reasonable, but I'll have to keep evaluating it. 

[actual vim]: https://github.com/lunixbochs/ActualVim
[linting]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_(software)
[nvim]: https://neovim.io/charter/