---
layout: default
title:  "Week 9"
date:   2018-03-25 21:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
I built the Allocator project. It was a pretty straightforward project overall--hand out chunks of memory from an array using first-fit allocation with no compacting. I was a little uneasy about the quality of my code for this one. I wrote a lot of loops for my `allocate()` method and then a lot of pointer voodoo for my `deallocate()` method. It was hard to avoid writing the same kinds of logic a bunch of times, but I think that was just the nature of this project. I had just as much trouble with the makefile and run harness as I did with the project itself. In order to get `clang-check` to run on `Allocator.h`, which did not have a corresponding `Allocator.c++`, I had to convince `clang-check` that a `.h` file was a C++ header. I tried a whole soup of command line flags, but ended up fixing it by having the makefile build a temporary `Allocator.hh` that just included `Allocator.h`.

## What's in your way?
This week I need to learn [CUDA][CUDA] so that I can teach my GPU how to solve [K-Means][kmeans] for my Concurrency class. Admittedly, I should have started this project earlier. Realistically, it wasn't going to get done last week. Hopefully, my GPU is friendly enough to overlook my very inexperienced and confused CUDA code.

## What will you do next week?
1. K-Means in CUDA
2. Look at Darwin
3. The third thing that I'm surely forgetting

## What's my experience of the class?
I'm starting to appreciate how far the flexibility of C++ can go to control the usage of classes. Things like implicit versus explicit constructors let software designers articulate when an implicit constructor doesn't make sense, while allowing implicit constructors for classes that can benefit from them.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
There's a feature of git called [git-notes][git-notes] that lets you add notes to commits without having to modify them. More generally, it lets you tag an arbitrary object with a note. By default, `git notes` targets `HEAD` (whatever you have checked out at the moment), but you can also target other commits. Here's an example of interacting with notes:
```bash
% git notes list
% git notes add -m "This improves the thing."
% git notes list
7ead4ff2e8bb4ae70ad804ad581213240a4e4e04 3b213b753fc996b1837fa989394fe0c36d20ab80
% git notes show
This improves the thing.
```
The notes even show up in `git log` right underneath the commit messages. Pretty cool.

Unfortunately as I did some research for this post, I found out that `git notes` might be pretty bad in practice. I read [some Quora post][guy that hates git notes] about the complexities involved. Firstly, notes are essentially a separate branch that you have to push and pull manually:
```bash
% git push origin refs/notes/commits
...
% git fetch origin refs/notes/commits:refs/notes/commits
...
```
You also have to merge notes separately from commits. Imagine having to resolve a merge conflict for your commit and then for your notes. Oof. Plus, even [GitHub decided][github notes] that notes aren't worth supporting in the web interface.

**TL;DR:** `git-notes` looks cool but it's probably too complicated to be practical.

[CUDA]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CUDA
[kmeans]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering
[git-notes]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-notes
[guy that hates git notes]: https://www.quora.com/Why-does-GitHub-no-longer-support-git-notes
[github notes]: https://blog.github.com/2010-08-25-git-notes-display/