---
layout: default
title:  "Week 1"
date:   2018-01-21 20:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What are your expectations of the class?
I just finished taking SWE and I'm expecting OOP to be similar in format but entirely different outside of class. While both SWE and OOP start with the Collatz project and the project workflow, SWE quickly diverges into a semester-long project that's more focused on delivering a product than a rigid workflow. I'm expecting the OOP projects to be less connected and more focused, which I think will shift the focus from learning how to create a software product to learning C++. I also expect to spend a lot more time working with testing tools. Overall, I expect that this course will fill in some glaring holes in my CS skillset. I'm very excited to finally be pushed to take an in-depth look at C++, which I feel will make me more versatile as a developer.

## What did you do this past week?
This week was pretty short thanks to the snow day and ended up actually being a syllabus week for once. I've just been trying to get organized for this semester so far.

## What's in your way?
I have lots of books to buy still.

## What will you do next week?
1. Get books
2. Start off the semester right by keeping up with my reading for a while

## What's my experience of the class?
All review so far. I actually attended a week or so of OOP lectures last semester before settling on SWE. I do really enjoy the format of the lectures and hope that I can answer my first roll call question without too much help.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
I'll have to find some cool C++ tools. In the meantime, I'd say that I've found that the best way for me to pick up a new technology or framework or whatever else is to build a project with it. The first project always comes out a little worse than I expect, but I find that it's really the only way for me to pick up on some of the patterns associated with the technology. When I wrote my first project in C, I spent enough time looking at other C code that I began to learn naming conventions, argument conventions, what goes in a header file, and so on. When I started using [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html) with [React](https://reactjs.org/) for SWE, it felt awkward at best to write an HTML node into a Javascript statement. By the end of the project, however, I was really able to appreciate its flexibility and I felt much more comfortable using it to solve problems.