---
layout: default
title:  "Week 2"
date:   2018-01-28 21:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week I got to start working on Collatz. Even after doing it last semester, it took me a while to get the workflow sorted out. I started by copying the starter code into my repo and setting up Travis to get a preliminary build working. Once that was done, I translated the workflow into issues on GitHub, fixed the tests, and wrote a brute-force Collatz solution.

When I made my first submission to HackerRank, my code timed out before finishing the second two test cases. So, I decided to memoize my `cycle_len()` function that computes the Collatz cycle lenght of a given input. Given the input bounds of the problem--a number from 1 to one million--I decided that an array containing an entry for each possible input would be sufficient. The downside to this approach, of course, is the memory overhead. However, this is only about 4MB for our input constraints, and memory is cheap.

When I first submitted my optimized code, I noticed that it segfaulted on the second and third tests. I quickly realized the problem. Since I was looking up a value in the cache on every iteration of the Collatz computation, I needed to do bounds checking on each access instead of only checking the initial input value. Another issue I encountered was that I was performing the Collatz computation on an `int`. Although it was initially only within the range `[0, 1,000,000]`, it would sometime exceed the size of a 32-bit `int`. I solved this by copying the input into a `long`.

## What's in your way?
I'm struggling to stay on top of my readings. I find that they're immensely helpful in staying on top of my classes, but I have several assignments due this week and have been working on them this weekend.

## What will you do next week?
1. Run my Collatz solver against others' tests and submit my own
2. Set aside more time to read for next week

## What's my experience of the class?
As far as lectures go, the class is still mostly a review from SWE. The Collatz project is simple enough that I haven't really written anything that couldn't pass as C code. I'm excited to start working with the features of C++ and applying tools to more complicated projects.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
I was having trouble building Collatz locally, because Travis wants us to run `g++-7`, while my machine simply wants `g++`. Since Travis builds seem to take a long time for the `gcc` container (8+ minutes!), I decided to modify my makefile. After some quick Googling, I found a simple way to check whether a given command exists using `which` and makefile conditionals. Here's what I did:

```makefile
ifneq (, $(shell which g++-7))
	GPP := g++-7 # for travis
else
	GPP := g++   # for elsewhere
endif
```

The `$( shell ... )` runs a shell command and returns its result. In this example, I just use `which` to look for `g++-7`. If it exists, `which` will output a path. If it doesn't, `which` will output nothing. I use `ifneq` to compare the first argument--nothing--to the second argument--the output of `which`. In other words, if the `which g++-7` command doesn't output nothing, we set a variable `GPP` to `g++-7`. Otherwise, we fall back to `g++`. By using `$(GPP)` in place of `g++-7` in my make rules, I can run my makefile on both Travis and my local machine.