---
layout: default
title:  "Week 7"
date:   2018-03-11 23:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week, I wrapped up the first half of the semester. I took a quiz, interviewed, finished homework, and took an especially spooky test in Concurrency. The test reminded me too much of OS, but by contrast it was clear and well-written. Unfortunately I didn't get to do too much programming this week, so there's not much to say here.

## What's in your way?
At this point I am still waiting to figure out what I will be doing this summer. I am a bit anxious about that. Plus, I need to start planning out my courses for next semester. In the past, I've made a couple of mistakes during registration that made it harder than it should have been to get all the classes I wanted. I'm hoping to avoid that this time.

## What will you do next week?
0. Go to sleep
1. Try to start Allocator
2. Try not to think about classes too much

## What's my experience of the class?
I appreciate that Allocator has been explained in such detail in class. I feel confident that I can start working on it without too much trouble. I also enjoyed seeing some of the motivations for using an allocator. It's interesting that `new` and `delete` are so inconsistent, as it seems that a lot of C++ is very predictable and straightforward. I didn't realize when we started building our own `Allocator` that it has the same allocator interface as `std::allocator`. 

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
Recently for fun I've been building some terminal utilities for Python. I've been interested in how text-based applications like `vim`, `gdb`, or even the shell you're using (`zsh`, maybe?) interact with your terminal emulator. It is worth realizing that all of this stuff is *really old* and it's fascinating how some of it works. If you want to build your own text-based app, you are probably best-off using the [ncurses][ncurses] library. It's very mature and designed for building text-based applications. However, if you want to roll your own command line from scratch, check out [this article][build a shell]. It's pretty detailed but if you skim it you might get an idea of how this works.

Basically, you can print out [ANSI escape sequences][escapes] to control the terminal output (set colors, move the cursor, etc) and you can put the terminal into ["cbreak mode"][cbreak] to intercept each key the user presses. You might do this to, for example, add custom shortcuts, or create a screensaver that exits as soon as you press "q".

[ncurses]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ncurses
[build a shell]: http://www.lihaoyi.com/post/BuildyourownCommandLinewithANSIescapecodes.html
[escapes]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code
[cbreak]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_mode