---
layout: default
title:  "Week 11"
date:   2018-04-08 20:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
Kendall and I finished Darwin, which went pretty well aside from the issue with `vector` nonchalantly reorganizing our `Creature`s. As she mentioned, this happened the day before we looked at this in class, and my first instinct was to jump into `gdb` and poke around. I've found that this leads to discovering the problem 99% of the time, but sometimes twice as slowly as just thinking about it. Wouldn't you agree, though, that reliability is a virtue?

Austin and I have been diving head-first into the shallow pool that is our [CS 378 Concurrency][concurrency] final project. We decided, after an hour and a half of deliberation, to build a [raytracer][raytracer] in [CUDA][cuda]. A raytracer is more or less a simulation of light rays as they bounce around the physical environment. A raytracer "shoots" a virtual ray of light through each pixel to see what is visible (compute a color) at that point on the screen. After a couple of days of working on our CPU-based implementation, we've got this:

We've already sent in our applications to Pixar.

## What's in your way?
As several forward-thinking individuals have pointed out, final exams are coming up fast. I've also realized that all of my final exams this semester are during class time, which is good but also bad. It's good in that I won't have to deal with the anticipation of dead week, and bad in that I will be in my room studying for several weekends.

## What will you do next week?
1. Think about Life
2. Put together a CPU raytracer to convince [Professor Rossbach][chris] that we're only a little in over our heads

## What's my experience of the class?
Just when I thought that I really knew what was going on, I learned about the rvalue reference. I'm impressed by how thoroughly the C++ vector addresses the mechanics of what vectors do, and how's it's able to be as efficient and flexible as possible. I am starting to get the sense that it is much easier to write working C++ code than it is to write good C++ code, maybe more so than in other languages. Hopefully everyone who writes C++ is as careful as the authors of the STL.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
PlantUML can compile PDFs for you. Granted, it's messy, but if you enjoy collecting `jar` files, it's a [walk in the park][plantuml pdf]. I just put them all inside of a `tools/` folder within the Darwin repository, committed them, and looked the other way. After washing my hands, I was able to write a simple make rule:

```makefile
Darwin.pdf: Darwin.uml
	java -jar tools/plantuml.jar -pdf Darwin.uml
```

and have the PDF update automatically when we modified the UML. Cool.

[concurrency]: http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~rossbach/cs378/index.html
[raytracer]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_tracing_(graphics)
[cuda]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CUDA
[chris]: http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~rossbach/
[plantuml pdf]: http://plantuml.com/pdf