---
layout: default
title:  "Week 12"
date:   2018-04-15 18:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week, Maya and I started working on the Life project. I used some makefile trickery and function templating to create the six different run and test harnesses necessary for this project. Maya and I have been working on the design of the Conway cells, Fredkin cells, the Life class, and their interactions. I've been really conflicted about the communication of neighbor cells between Life and its Cells. On one hand, I think that the solution of sending a vector of all 8 neighbors from the Life instance to each Cell's `evolve()` method is most simple solution that retains sound OO design. However, it does assume the behavior of a Cell (it could only ever want to look at those 8 neighbors), and I would like to find a solution that is more general. I was considering creating an interface that allows Life to ask Cell what neighbors it wants to look at.

## What's in your way?
This week, I'm faced with a somewhat difficult situation. After being denied an extension from two to three weeks and accepting my only internship offer on Monday, I received a significantly more attractive offer on Friday. I decided that the opportunity cost of sticking with my commitment was too much, and I will have to contact some people on Monday to get this sorted out. Either way, it would have been a tough situation. Ultimately, considering that the first employer failed to respect the CNS three-week policy, I don't feel that bad about it.

## What will you do next week?
1. Write a lot of unit tests
2. Get Life working
3. Keep working toward getting our [raytracer][raytracer] onto the GPU

## What's my experience of the class?
Inheritance and polymorphism in C++ are a little bit rough. I'm glad that we're getting to spend some time on them, because I had been starting to run into some trouble with them in my own C++ code. The lectures have been very effective at making the situation approachable, though, and I feel that I am developing a better understanding and intuition of how to use them effectively.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
In class we've looked at `fill`, `copy`, `uninitialized_fill`, and friends from the [`std::algorithm`][algorithm] library. I noticed that we didn't look at their counterparts, `fill_n`, `copy_n`, etc. These are essentially the same algorithms, but with a slightly different signature.

```c++
void fill( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, const T& value );
void fill_n( OutputIt first, Size count, const T& value );
```

I've found that the `_n` functions can make code look a bit cleaner especially when dealing with arrays. Though in most cases you might not need them, I've just found them to be more convenient every now and then.

[raytracer]: https://loganzartman.github.io/oopblog18/oop/2018/04/09/week11.html
[algorithm]: http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/algorithm
