---
layout: default
title:  "Week 5"
date:   2018-02-18 21:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
We finished submitting the Voting project this week, and didn't have much trouble since we got a lot of it out of the way before the last blog post. I spent a lot of time completing another Concurrency project. This one was about the [K-Means][kmeans] algorithm. We looked at parallelizing it using [Bulk Synchronous Parallel][BSP] programming, which is more or less running some parallelizable portion of the computation on several threads and then waiting for and combining their results. This involves barrier synchronization and the familiar mutex lock.

## What's in your way?
I have an exam in algorithms and a couple of career-oriented events to attend. Luckily, it should all be out of the way by Tuesday.

## What will you do next week?
1. Look for an internship
2. Learn [Go][golang] as quickly as possible for my next Concurrency project
3. Write my blog earlier

## What's my experience of the class?
I find that I'm getting comfortable with C++ more quickly than I expected. Working with it in both OOP and Concurrency has been a big help to me, and I am confident enough at this point to at least mention it on my resume. As far as C++, it's interesting to see some language idioms like iterators. These strike me as similar to if not the same as [duck typing][quack]:
> If it walks like a duck and it quacks like a duck, then it must be a duck
I was somewhat disappointed to learn that C++ has no notion of interface classes. Similarly, Python and Javascript use duck typing rather than having formally-defined interface classes. If you want to require that an object has some specific interface, you just ask to see if it has the relevant qualities (methods). While I have nothing against duck typing, it seems like it could be harder to work with in a language like C++ that is strongly and statically typed. In Python and Javascript, we do not have to ask for a specific base class for our duck-typed objects, while in C++, we are forced to choose some class in function parameters for example. It is also possible that there are other things available to us in C++ that make this easier.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
Strongly, weakly, and statically-typed are sort of buzzwords that identify how types work in a language. Statically-typed just means that types are all known at compile time, while dynamically-typed means that types are inferred, possibly at runtime. Strongly-typed is a more colloquial term that implies that the compiler gets mad if you try to mix types. In Javascript, for example, the JIT will happily allow you to evaluate `1 + "1"` (and get "11"), while the Python interpreter would be angry that you tried to do addition on unsupported types. Here's a small table for reference:

Language | Strongly-typed | Statically-typed
--- | --- | ---
Javascript | no | no
Python | yes | no
C++ | yes | yes

[kmeans]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering
[BSP]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulk_synchronous_parallel#The_model
[golang]: https://golang.org/
[quack]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_typing
