---
layout: default
title:  "Week 4"
date:   2018-02-11 21:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---

## What did you do this past week?
[Austin][austin] and I got most of the work done for the Voting project, which simulates an Australian election. We were careful not to throw away any votes (this isn't Florida) and apart from a couple of issues, we were able to get the project nailed down pretty quickly.

This project was a bit more interesting than Collatz in that we had no starter code, so we had to build the project files ourselves. I worked on adapting the makefile and ran into the unfortunate issue that our `RunVoting.out` would get clobbered whenever we did a `make check`. When we ran the `make check`, `make` would automatically perform a `cp RunVoting RunVoting.out`. My best guess is that this is a built-in rule that is assuming that `RunVoting.out` is supposed to be a binary (.out is a common executable extension) and trying to produce it with the `RunVoting` binary that we build. Since the file did exist and was being overwritten, I assume that `make` thought that it was out of date for some reason, even though it had no dependencies (and no rule at all) written in our makefile. I solved the whole problem by removing it from the `FILES` list (dependencies for the `check` rule) so that `make` would not try to produce it.

When it came to implementing our solution, we decided to jump right onto the bucket-based implementation. We felt that there really wasn't significantly more logic involved than in the naive solution, and were able to run simple test cases pretty quickly. We did run into one serious issue where we were only removing one losing candidate per round, even if there were many candidates tied as the loser. We realized that the rules of the election required us to remove *everyone* tied for least votes, and to remove them simultaneously. Our final algorithm involves marking all losers in sequence, and only once all losers are marked, redistributing their votes.

## What's in your way?
I'd like to go to the spring career fair. I want to get some time in reviewing and thinking about interview questions.

## What will you do next week?
1. Some interview prep
2. I didn't work on any of my own projects last week. Maybe this week.

## What's my experience of the class?
`const` pizza is my new favorite. I was having some trouble dealing with `const` qualifiers while working on my new Concurrency project and that specific lecture was pretty enlightening. The paint gun analogy was fascinating and might have actually stuck a little more than rote memorization of `const` qualifier positioning. I will admit to having done a `const_cast` or two while overloading operators and now I feel a sense of guilt.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
For a lot of projects, it's very useful to have a scripting language to automate tasks. Some people will use bash and I really don't understand this. I do not like it as a language. A better one is Python, which is useful for all sorts of things. In about 25 lines of Python, I was able to write a test generator for Voting that broke our intial solution. For Concurrency, I use a Python script to run a binary for several test cases, collect and parse its output, and then output a graph using [matplotlib][matplotlib].

There are a couple of tricks when it comes to Python. First of all, Python 3 is unfortunately not backward-compatible with Python 2, and it is hard to get everyone using one version. One of the biggest practical differences is the `print` syntax, which is `print "string"` in Python 2 and `print("string")` in Python 3. To enable the Python 3 syntax in Python 2, you can add `from __future__ import print_function` at the top of your script. Here's a [cheatsheet][cheatsheet] for creating code that is compatible with both Python 2 and Python 3.

Secondly, you can make your Python scripts executable. Just add a [shebang][shebang] to the top of the file, like this:
```bash
#!/usr/bin/env python

```
and run a `chmod +x` on your script, and you can invoke it on the command line like `./script.py`.

[austin]: https://austinatchley.github.io/
[matplotlib]: https://matplotlib.org/
[cheatsheet]: http://python-future.org/compatible_idioms.html
[shebang]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)

