---
layout: default
title:  "Week 13 - Final Entry"
date:   2018-05-06 15:00:00 -0600
categories: oop
---
## The Last Post
I've had a great time in this class, and in [SWE][swe] last semester. What stands out to me about these courses are that they have broad goals--"teach students the languages, tools, and practices necessary to build a modern website" and "teach students the C++ language and OOD principles"--and they manage to do so in lecture, convince you to do so on your own, and do both in a way that is genuinely engaging. The fact that Professor Downing can do all three of these sets these courses apart from many others that I've taken.

### What did you like the most about the class?
I've pretty much already explained this. But, it's worth noting that the HackerRank-based tests are a plus, and that, in OOP, the projects are very manageable while still delivering a lot of value.

### What did you like the least about the class?
I don't have any real complaints concerning the course format, so I will say that Travis CI and the makefile madness involved in the workflow of these projects can be pretty painful. In particular, the base makefile for the projects is pretty hefty considering what the Collatz project entails, and it can be daunting for someone who has never written a makefile and suddenly can't get their project to build on Travis. Being able to get these things working, though, is a good skill. I would recommend trying to learn the basics of what's going on--how make rules work, what each of your tools is actually doing, etc.

### What's the most significant thing you learned?
This seems kind of obvious, but I would say the C++ language. First of all, I think this is an accomplishment in and of itself. C++ can be intimidating, and has a very complicated and deep syntax compared to other languages. Second, I think that the way in which Professor Downing teaches the language enables you to understand why it works the way that it does. This understanding makes the difference between having to memorize language syntax and being able to guess how the language would work in a certain situation. Understanding the underlying reasoning behind and implementation of language features makes you a better programmer.

## By Numbers
### How many hours a week did you spend coding for this class?
This is hard to say, because the projects are not a steady workload. Projects are due about every other week, with some occasional breaks. During the weeks with a project due, I would estimate that I spent up to 15 or 20 hours programming. On off weeks, that number is much smaller. This will vary based on how much more responsible than me you are, but the project workload is very manageable.

### How many hours a week did you spend reading for this class?
You should definitely do the reading. The papers are very well chosen, and the book can actually be pretty useful. That being said, I did less reading than I should have, especially since I took SWE beforehand. If you're not used to the quiz format for this class, this will come back to hurt you in your quiz scores.

### How many lines of code do you think you wrote?
I did a rough count looking at my Github repos and I'd estimate about 1500. Not bad at all. It's worth noting that, ideally, a lot of your programming will be pair programming.

## What've We Learned?
### What required tool did you not know and now find very useful?
Since I took SWE, I've seen most of these tools before. I learn something new about git every time I use it, and I am becoming a seasoned makefile wrestler. I have started using tools like Valgrind for compiled languages, which was very useful when I was working on my projects for CS 378 Concurrency. Using Valgrind also inspired me to learn how to use [AddressSanitizer][asan], which filled in some memory-checking gaps in my debugging.

### If you could change one thing about the course, what would it be?
The only thing that really stuck out to me was the Life project. When you do the Life project, you will be hearing a lot about how getters and setters are bad (generally true), but I think that a bit more discussion about how to structure this project without them would have been helpful. At the very least, maybe define an interface with a minimal set of getters for things simulated by the Life class. 

Also, I heard several recommendations to manually unroll loops. It is 2018 and we have very good optimizing compilers. Sacrificing code quality for a microoptimization is (almost always) bad, and you don't need to do it for that project!

[swe]: https://loganzartman.github.io/sweblog17/
[asan]: https://loganzartman.github.io/oopblog18/oop/2018/04/02/week10.html
